welcome to getting started with App
Engine my name is Laurence Moroney and
I'm a developer advocate at Google for
the cloud platform in this video I'll
give you an overview of how you can use
App Engine to build cloud scalable apps
that are always available thanks to them
running on Google's infrastructure for
you the cloud platform has a number of
different technologies that you can use
and these enable a variety of scenarios
giving you platform as a service as well
as infrastructure as a service as well
as just about everything you could ever
need to build cloud scalable
applications that run a Google secure
scalable and available infrastructure in
this video I will introduce App Engine
and describe how you can use App Engine
to build applications on top of Google's
infrastructure allowing you to focus on
writing your code and not worrying about
being able to build the infrastructure
to support it should you need to scale
in a big way with App Engine you can use
a variety of popular programming
languages in a way that you are familiar
with very little changes you can build
cloud scalable apps with Python PHP or
go using your favorite development tools
and a local environment for testing and
debugging your app before you deploy it
to the cloud App Engine also supports
Java and with an eclipse plug-in you can
also develop test and debug locally
before you deploy it to the cloud when
building web or cloud apps there are
many considerations but perhaps the most
important of these is your data app
engine gives you a myriad of choices for
how you store and retrieve your data and
you can pick the ones that suit you
Google Cloud datastore is a very simple
no sequel data storage scheme you simply
create an object like this and put it
into the datastore you can retrieve your
object easily in a variety of ways
including a sequel like language called
G call here you can see an example where
I have a model that I called answers an
answer can have a number of attributes
such as the author city or country and I
simply just set these attributes and
then put my answer into datastore G cool
looks a lot like sequel and as you can
see here I have a query that says select
city from answer where I can just take a
look at all of the cities that I'd have
answers for if your application requires
you to store a lot of data and write
time is an issue for example if you have
a lot of concurrent you
and you don't want to burn resources
writing data the Google cloud datastore
is a terrific option should you prefer
to use a traditional relational database
or if you have an existing database that
you'd like to migrate to the cloud then
Google Cloud sequel is built for you
built upon my sequel it gives you a
powerful scalable database with full
sequel support here you can see I'm
connecting to my sequel database and I'm
creating a cursor on which I can execute
a sequel query once I have that query I
can iterate through all the rows of that
query and pull out the columns that I
want before I finally close the database
of course if you need to store your
information in something other than a
database for example files on a file
system for pictures or other media you
can use Google Cloud storage this is a
restful service for storing accessing
and providing controlled access to your
data on Google's infrastructure the
Google Cloud Storage client library is
available for you to build applications
that use cloud storage here's an example
you can see it's just like programming
for any kind of file system where I can
open a file I can write to it and close
it or I can open a file and then seek to
a specific location on that file and of
course I can just delete the files that
I don't want if you want to use data
with maximum speed you can do it
directly to memory instead of to a data
store or database to empower this app
engine introduces memcache a technology
for storing information in shared memory
as a key value pair here are some
examples of using the memcache API I can
add a new value to memcache by calling
the add method in this I can specify the
key and the value as well as an optional
timeout parameter after which app engine
will automatically flush the memcache
variable saving me my resources I can
get a value from memcache by specifying
the key that I want to read or I can
also set a value in memcache using the
set method a handy shortcode for
numerical values is this increment call
it saves me from getting the value
changing it and then resetting it these
are just a few simple samples there's a
lot more on using memcache at the
developer site that you'll see at the
end of this video everything about your
app can be managed using the App Engine
console from here you can see how your
app is performing as well as being able
to inspect your data be it in datastore
cloud sequel or memcache
using App Engine you can take your web
applications to the cloud and not have
to worry about scale all web
applications have peaks and troughs of
usage and when built on App Engine you
don't have to worry about paying for the
compute power that you don't use and you
can rest assured that when you need it
Google's powerful infrastructure is
there to power your site you can learn
more about App Engine at
developers.google.com thank you and
welcome to the cloud